Clancy's garage
In the Tyler's flat, Jackie is decorating the white plastic Christmas tree and putting presents under it. She looks at the one for Rose and gazes wistfully into the distance.
Meanwhile, at Mickey's work, Noddy Holder is screaming 'Merry Christmas' on the radio when another sound can be faintly heard above it and John's hammering.MICKEY: Hey, turn that down. Turn it off, Stevo. Turn that off! John, shut up!
It's a familiar whooshing sound. Mickey runs out.The Tyler's flat
Jackie hears it too.JACKIE: Rose!
Powell Estate
JACKIE: Mickey!
MICKEY: Jackie, it's the Tardis!
JACKIE: I know, I know, I heard it. She's alive, Mickey. I said so, didn't I? She's alive!
MICKEY: Just shut up a minute.
JACKIE: Well, where is it then?
The Tardis comes out of the vortex in mid air and bounces off one block of flats, a second and a third before avoiding a post office van and finally crashing into a set of waste bins. The Doctor opens the door, still in t-shirt and leather jacket.DOCTOR: Here we are then, London. Earth. The Solar System. We did it. Jackie. Mickey. Blimey! No, no, no, no, hold on. Wait there. I've got something to say. There was something I had to tell you, something important. What was it? No, hold on, hold on. Hold on, shush, shush, shush, shush. Oh, I know! Merry Christmas!
The Doctor collapses. Rose comes out of the Tardis.ROSE: What happened? Is he all right?
MICKEY: I don't know, he just keeled over. But who is he? Where's the Doctor?
ROSE: That's him, right in front of you. That's the Doctor.
JACKIE: What do you mean, that's the Doctor? Doctor who?
The Tyler's flat - bedroomThe Doctor has been dressed in pyjamas and put to bed. Jackie comes in with a stethoscope.JACKIE: Here we go. Tina the cleaner's got this lodger, a medical student, and she was fast asleep, so I just took it. Though I still say we should take him to hospital.
ROSE: We can't. They'd lock him up. They'd dissect him. One bottle of his blood could change the future of the human race. No! Shush!
Rose listens to both sides of the Doctor's chest.ROSE: Both working.
JACKIE: What do you mean, both?
ROSE: Well, he's got two hearts.
JACKIE: Oh, don't be stupid.
ROSE: He has.
JACKIE: Anything else he's got two of?
ROSE: Leave him alone.
Rose and Jackie leave. The Doctor exhales some of the Tardis's golden energy, which flies off into space.The Tyler's flat - kitchen
Rose investigates the fridge.JACKIE: How can he go changing his face? Is that a different face or is he a different person?
ROSE: How should I know? Sorry. The thing is I thought I knew him, Mum. I thought me and him were. And then he goes and does this. I keep forgetting he's not human. The big question is where'd you get a pair of men's pyjamas from?
JACKIE: Howard's been staying over.
ROSE: What, Howard from the market? How long's that been going on?
JACKIE: A month or so. First of all, he starts delivering to the door and I thought, that's odd. Next thing you know, it's a bag of oranges.
ROSE: Is that Harriet Jones?
Rose goes into the living room.JACKIE: Oh, never mind me.
The Tyler's flat
ROSE: Why's she on the telly?
JACKIE: She's Prime Minister now. I'm eighteen quid a week better off. They're calling it Britain's Golden Age. I keep on saying my Rose has met her.
ROSE: Did more than that. Stopped World War Three with her. Harriet Jones.
MAN on TV: Prime Minister, what about those calling the Guinevere One Space Probe a waste of money?
HARRIET: on TV: Now, that's where you're wrong. I completely disagree if you don't mind. The Guinevere One Space Probe represents this country's limitless ambition. British workmanship sailing up there among the stars.
LLEWELLYN on TV: This is the spirit of Christmas, birth and rejoicing, and the dawn of a new age, and that is what we're achieving fifteen million miles away. Our very own miracle.
NARRATOR OC: The unmanned probe Guinevere One is about to make it's final descent. Photographs of the Martian Landscape should be received by midnight tonight.
Out in space, the probe bumps into presumably either Phobos or Deimos. A hatch opens in the Martian moon and the probe is sucked inside.Street
A brass band dressed in Santa robes plays God Rest Ye Merry, Gentlemen.MICKEY: So what do you need? Twenty quid?
ROSE: Do you mind? I'll pay you back.
MICKEY: Call it a Christmas present.
ROSE: God, I'm all out of sync. You just forget about Christmas and things in the Tardis. They don't exist. You get sort of timeless.
MICKEY: Oh, yeah, that's fascinating, because I love hearing stories about the Tardis. Oh, go on Rose, tell us another one because I swear I could listen to it all day. Tardis this, Tardis that.
ROSE: Shut up.
MICKEY: Oh, and one time the Tardis landed in a big yellow garden full of balloons.
ROSE: I'm not like that!
MICKEY: Oh, you so are.
ROSE: Mmm, must drive you mad. I'm surprised you don't give up on me.
MICKEY: Oh, that's the thing, isn't it? You can rely on me. I don't go changing my face.
ROSE: Yeah. What if he's dying?
MICKEY: Okay.
ROSE: Sorry!
MICKEY: Just let it be Christmas. Can you do that? Just for a bit. You and me and Christmas. No Doctor, no bog monsters, no life or death.
ROSE: Okay.
MICKEY: Promise?
ROSE: Yes!
MICKEY: Right! What're you going to get for your mum?
They walk around the market.MICKEY: I'm round there all the time now, you know. She does my dinner on a Sunday, talks about you all afternoon, yap yap yap.
The band, which is wearing plastic masks, starts to follow them. Rose notices. They stop playing and one fires a flame out of his trombone, starting a panic. Mickey and Rose hide behind a stall. ROSE: It's us! They're after us!
The tuba fires a blast which demolishes a large tree, sending it crashing onto him. Mickey and Rose flee.MICKEY: What's going on? What've we done? Why are they after us?
ROSE: Taxi!
Taxi
ROSE: They're after the Doctor.
MICKEY: I can't even go shopping with you. We get attacked by a brass band. Who're you phoning?
ROSE: My mum.